Window.open() complete overhaul (#12425)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/window/open/index.md

---
{{APIRef}}

The **`open()`** method of the {{domxref('Window')}} interface loads a specified resource into a new or existing tab, window, or {{HTMLElement("iframe")}} (i.e., a new or existing browsing context) under a specified name.

## Syntax

```js
open();
open(url);

> open(url, windowName);

Reviewer: There is no reason, other than it being a hold over from the old page. This has been updated.

open(url, windowName, windowFeatures);
```

### Parameters

- `url` {{optional_inline}}
  - : A string indicating the URL or path of the resource to be loaded. If an empty string (`""`) is specified as `url`, a blank page is opened into the targeted browsing context. Note that remote URLs are deferred until after the current script block finishes executing.

> - `windowName` {{optional_inline}}

Reviewer: See above. Just a hold over.

  - : A string, without whitespace, specifying the name of the browsing context the resource is being loaded into — not the window's {{HTMLElement("title", "", "#attr-target")}}. If the name doesn't indicate an existing context, a new context is created and given the specified name. The special `target` keywords, `_self`, `_blank`, `_parent`, and `_top`, can also be used.

    This name can be used as the `target` attribute of
    {{HTMLElement("a", "", "#attr-target")}} or {{HTMLElement("form", "",
    "#attr-target")}} elements.

- `windowFeatures` {{optional_inline}}

>   - : A string containing a comma-separated list of window features in the form _name=value_ — or for boolean features, just _name_. These features include options such as the window's default size and position, whether or not to open a minimal popup window, and so forth. See {{anch("Window features")}} below for descriptions of each feature.

Reviewer: The requested changes have been made in the commit I just sent. This looks cleaner.

    given with their corresponding values in the form _name=value_ — or for boolean features, just _name_. These
    features include options such as the window's default size and position, whether or
    not to open a minimal popup window, and so forth. See {{anch("Window features")}}
    below for documentation of each of the features that can be specified.
  - : A string containing a comma-separated list of window features in the form _name=value_ — or for boolean features, just _name_. These features include options such as the window's default size and position, whether or not to open a minimal popup window, and so forth. See {{anch("Window features")}} below for descriptions of each feature.

### Return value

A `WindowProxy` object, which is basically a thin wrapper for the
{{domxref("Window")}} object representing the newly created window, and has all its
features available. If the window couldn't be opened, the returned value is instead
`null`. The returned reference can be used to access properties and methods
of the new window as long as it complies with [Same-origin policy](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy) security
requirements.

> ## Description

Reviewer: Okay, I have added the description back onto the page.

---
{{APIRef}}

> The **`open()`** method loads a specified resource into a new or existing tab, window or {{HTMLElement("iframe")}} (i.e., a new or existing browsing context) under a specified name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **`open()`** method of the {{domxref('Window')}} interface loads a specified resource into a new or existing tab, window, or {{HTMLElement("iframe")}} (i.e., a new or existing browsing context) under a specified name.
```

Reviewer 3: console.log('my ' + 'string'); // console logs the string "my string".

## Syntax

```js

> let newWindow = window.open(url, windowName, [windowFeatures]);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
open();
open(url);
open(url, windowName);
open(url, windowName, windowFeatures);
```

Reviewer 2: This request is according to the [new instructions for syntax](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/MDN/Structures/Syntax_sections).

```

### Parameters

> - `url`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `url` {{optional_inline}}
```

  - : A string indicating the URL or path of the resource to be loaded. If an empty string (`""`) is specified as `url`, a blank page is opened into the targeted browsing context. Note that remote URLs are deferred until after the current script block finishes executing.

- `windowName` {{optional_inline}}

>   - : A string, without whitespace, specifying the name of the browsing context the resource is being loaded into — not the window's {{HTMLElement("title", "", "#attr-target")}}. If the name doesn't indicate an existing context, a new context is created and given the specified name. The special `target` keywords, `_self`, `_blank`, `_parent` and `_top`, can also be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - : A string, without whitespace, specifying the name of the browsing context the resource is being loaded into — not the window's {{HTMLElement("title", "", "#attr-target")}}. If the name doesn't indicate an existing context, a new context is created and given the specified name. The special `target` keywords, `_self`, `_blank`, `_parent`, and `_top`, can also be used.
```

    This name can be used as the `target` attribute of
    {{HTMLElement("a", "", "#attr-target")}} or {{HTMLElement("form", "",
    "#attr-target")}} elements.

- `windowFeatures` {{optional_inline}}

>   - : A string containing a comma-separated list of window features in the form _name=value_ — or for boolean features, just _name_. These features include options such as the window's default size and position, whether or not to open a minimal popup window, and so forth. See {{anch("Window features")}} below for documentation of each feature that can be specified.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - : A string containing a comma-separated list of window features in the form _name=value_ — or for boolean features, just _name_. These features include options such as the window's default size and position, whether or not to open a minimal popup window, and so forth. See {{anch("Window features")}} below for descriptions of each feature.
```

### Return value

A [WindowProxy](/en-US/docs/Glossary/WindowProxy) object. The returned reference can be used to access properties and methods of the new window as long as it complies with [Same-origin policy](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy) security requirements.

## Examples

The following example demonstrates how to implement the `popup` feature.

```js
let windowObjectReference;
let windowFeatures = "popup";

function openRequestedPopup() {
  windowObjectReference = window.open("http://www.mozilla.org/", "mozillaWindow", windowFeatures);
}
```

We can also control the size and position of the new window.

```js
let windowObjectReference;
let windowFeatures = "left=100,top=100,width=320,height=320";

function openRequestedPopup() {
  windowObjectReference = window.open("http://www.mozilla.org/", "mozillaWindow", windowFeatures);
}
```

Alternatively, we can open a new _tab_ by omitting window features.

```js
let windowObjectReference;

function openRequestedPopup() {
  windowObjectReference = window.open("http://www.mozilla.org/", "mozillaTab");
}
```

## Window features

> `windowFeatures` is an optional string containing a comma-separated list of window features such as size, position and UI features. However, most modern browsers will ignore changes to UI features for a better user experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`windowFeatures` is an optional comma-separated list of window features such as size, position, and UI features. Most modern browsers will ignore changes to UI features for a better user experience.
```

### Popup feature

- `popup`
  - : If this feature is enabled, it requests that a minimal popup window be used. The UI features included in the popup window will be automatically decided by the browser, generally including an address bar only.
  
    If `popup` is not enabled, and there are no window features declared, the new browsing context will be a tab.

> **Note:** Specifying any features in the _windowFeatures_ parameter, other than `noopener` or `noreferer`, also has the effect of requesting a popup.

### Size

- `width` or `innerWidth`

>   - : Specifies the height of the content area, including scrollbars. The minimum required value is 100.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - : Specifies the width of the content area, including scrollbars. The minimum required value is 100.
```

- `height` or `innerHeight`
  - : Specifies the height of the content area, including scrollbars. The minimum required value is 100.

### Position

- `left` or `screenX`

>   - :  Specifies the distance, in pixels, the new window will be generated from the left side of the work area of the user's operating system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - : Species the distance in pixels from the left side of the work area as defined by the user's operating system where the new window will be generated.
```

- `top` or `screenY`

>   - : Specifies the distance, in pixels, the new window will be generated from the left side of the work area of the user's operating system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - : Species the distance in pixels from the top of the work area as defined by the user's operating system where the new window will be generated.
```

Reviewer: I agree with these changes, but it seems you inadvertently changed 'Specifies' to 'Species'.

    bar, tab bar, etc. The minimum required value is 100.
- `top` or `screenY`
  - : Specifies the distance, in pixels, the new window will be generated from the left side of the work area of the user's operating system.

If the `windowFeatures` parameter is non-empty and no size
features are defined, then the new window dimensions will be the same as the dimensions
of the most recently rendered window.
> **Note:** If a popup is requested and no position features are specified, then the left and top coordinates of the new window will be offset 22 pixels from the original window. If the original window is maximized, the window will also be maximized.

### Toolbar and UI parts features
### UI features

> **Warning:** These features are kept only for backward compatibility.
> In modern browsers (Firefox 76 or newer, Google Chrome, Safari, Chromium Edge), the
> following features are just a condition for whether to open a popup or not. See the [popup condition](#popup_condition) section.

The following features control the visibility of each UI part.
To enable them, either specify them with no value at all, or else set them to `yes` or `1`.

> To disable them, either omit them, or else set them to `no` or `0`.

Reviewer 2: Did you move this somewhere else? It seems like information we should keep.

Reviewer: I agree it should be kept. While the initial description of windowFeatures does explain the syntax _name=value_, it would be a good reminder here that these are boolean features and how to enable/disable them.

Reviewer 4: It's my understanding that in "modern browsers" these features only control whether the window is a popup, as described in https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/open#popup_condition, and this is covered in the note at https://pr12425.content.dev.mdn.mozit.cloud/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/open#popup_feature.

Is that correct?

According to the page this is true since Firefox 76, which is almost 2 years old, and unspecified versions of Chrome and Safari. Technically "not supported in any maintained browsers for 2 years" is I think our cut-off for not documenting features, so there seems like a reasonable case for dropping this documentation.

> In modern browsers (Firefox 76 or newer, Chrome, Safari, Edge), the
> following features are just a condition for whether `popup` is true or false.

- `menubar`

  - : If this feature is on, then the new secondary window renders the menubar.

    If `windowFeatures` is non-empty, `menubar` defaults

>     to off.

Reviewer 2: Seems like useful information. Keep?

Reviewer: I agree with keeping this and the following. My original thinking was, since these features are essentially unusable, the descriptions could be shortened. However, in this instance more information doesn't hurt.

Reviewer 2: Please define 'unusable'? Unusable in the browser you tried? Not yet implemented anywhere? Deprecated everywhere? Something else? Removing might not be wrong. It's also possible that something else entirely needs to be done.

Reviewer 2: So, how many places did you try?

Reviewer: Apologies for the delay in response... I tested Firefox, Chrome, Edge, Safari, and Opera. Each browser ignored these window features and presented a new limited 'popup' window, as expected per the warning. Currently, this information is included for backwards compatibility. Is this grounds for deprecation? @wbamberg's comment above poses a good argument for this.

Reviewer 2: I think deprecation is appropriate. I wanted to make sure you hadn't tried this on only one browser. (We get that a lot.) It was possible that the behavior you saw was a first implementation of a spec change or the last implementation for a prior spec.

Reviewer: I have removed the features per this conversation.

  - : Controls if the new window has a menubar.

- `toolbar`

  - : If this feature is on, then the new secondary window renders the toolbar buttons
    (Back, Forward, Reload, Stop buttons).

    In addition to the toolbar buttons, Firefox (before 76) will render the Tab Bar if it
    is visible, present in the parent window. (If this feature is set to off, all toolbars
    in the window will be invisible).

    If `windowFeatures` is non-empty, `toolbar` defaults

>     to off.

Reviewer 2: Keep?

Reviewer: Yes

  - : Controls if the new window has toolbar buttons (e.g., Back, Forward and Reload).

- `location`

  - : If this feature is on, then the new secondary window renders the location bar or the
    address bar.

    If `windowFeatures` is non-empty, `location` defaults

>     to off.

Reviewer 2: Keep?

Reviewer: Yes

  - : Controls if the new window has a location (address) bar.

- `status`

  - : If this feature is on, then the new secondary window has a status bar.

    If `windowFeatures` is non-empty, `status` defaults

>     to off.

Reviewer 2: Keep?

Reviewer: Yes

  - : Controls if the new window has a status bar.

- `resizable`

  - : If this feature is on, the new secondary window will be resizable.

    If `windowFeatures` is non-empty, `resizable`
    defaults to on.

    > **Note:** For accessibility reasons, it is strongly recommended to

>     > set this feature always on

Reviewer 2: keep?

Reviewer: I agree, is the note on accessibility necessary? This feature is forced on by the browser anyways.

  - : Controls if the new window will be resizable.

- `scrollbars`
  - : Controls if the new window will have scrollbars.

  - : If this feature is on, the new secondary window will show horizontal and/or vertical
    scrollbar(s) if the document doesn't fit into the window's viewport.

    If `windowFeatures` is non-empty, `scrollbars`
    defaults to off.

    See [note on scrollbars](#note_on_scrollbars).

    > **Note:** For accessibility reasons, it is strongly encouraged to set

>     > this feature always on.

Reviewer 2: Keep?

Reviewer: Same answer as above, but I also suggested removing the note on scrollbars as well because this feature is forced on by the browser.

>   - : If this feature is set, the new window will not have access back to the originating window via {{domxref("Window.opener")}} and returns `null`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - : If this feature is set, the new window will not have access to the originating window via {{domxref("Window.opener")}} and returns `null`.
```

### Window functionality features
### Window functionality

- `noopener`
  - : If this feature is set, the new window will not have access back to the originating window via {{domxref("Window.opener")}} and returns `null`.

  - : If this feature is set, the newly-opened window will open as normal, except that it
    will not have access back to the originating window (via {{domxref("Window.opener")}}
    — it returns `null`). In addition, the `window.open()` call will
    also return `null`, so the originating window will not have access to the
    new one either. This is useful for preventing untrusted sites opened via
    `window.open()` from tampering with the originating window, and vice versa.

    Note that when `noopener` is used, nonempty target names other than
    `_top`, `_self`, and `_parent` are all treated like
    `_blank` in terms of deciding whether to open a new window/tab.

    This is supported in modern browsers including Chrome, and Firefox 52+. See
    [`rel="noopener"`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Link_types#noopener) for
    more information and for browser compatibility details, including information about

>     ancillary effects.

Reviewer 2: You're proposing removing a lot of material that still seems valid. Is this resubmitted somewhere else?

Reviewer: After re-reviewing these sections, I agree. I was a little overzealous here. I would propose retaining the following in a best practices section:
- The best practices examples (perhaps rewritten with more concise explanations)
- Explanation of .close() and .focus() in relation to .open()
- A note on why not to use .open() and alternatives (modals, tabs)
- A note on testing whether the window has successfully opened

Additionally, the note on position and dimension error correction could be integrated into its respective feature description.

Lastly, I'm not sure the relevance of concerns over JavaScript being enabled or not, and other questions regarding forcing maximized window or resizing and so on are covered in earlier sections.

If there is more information that I am missing, let me know.

Reviewer 2: >If there is more information that I am missing, let me know.

This content is a conundrum that would produce lengthy discussion even among the MDN staff. This is probably won't be resolved quickly. This isn't a reflection on you. I hope you can bear with us while we work through this. I don't know what you already know, so forgive me if you've heard some of this. This will at least ensure we're on the same page.

As it appears you've already noticed that this content doesn't really fit with the standard structure of a page like this. Typically the information you tried to remove would go on an API overview page. This method does not have an API overview page. I don't want to assume that we can treat this as a one-off. There might be other situations like it, but I don't know. I'm going to call in the MDN folks to advise us.

>Lastly, I'm not sure the relevance of concerns over JavaScript being enabled or not

This page hasn't been updated in many years. I think all of the content you wanted to remove actually needs to be replaced with completely new content. That's a simpler procedure than trying to monkey patch a monkey patch of a monkey patch. If you're interested in helping, we'll be grateful, but we don't expect you to do our heavy lifting. It might be that we ask you to just restore the deleted content and merge your other corrections (which are pretty good by the way.) We would then handle the rewrite ourselves.

@Rumyra, @ddbeck

Reviewer 5: >  It might be that we ask you to just restore the deleted content and merge your other corrections (which are pretty good by the way.)

I agree with this - keep the corrections and restore content - possible raise an issue with the suggestions:

> The best practices examples (perhaps rewritten with more concise explanations)
> Explanation of .close() and .focus() in relation to .open()
> A note on why not to use .open() and alternatives (modals, tabs)
> A note on testing whether the window has successfully opened

Which all seem really good

Reviewer: Thanks @Rumyra. I have restored this content for later consideration. I am certainly interested in lending more help on this subject and can look into submitting a new issue regarding these sections.

has a similar error correction mechanism](https://msdn2.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms997645.aspx#xpsp_topic5) but it is not activated by default in all
security levels: a security setting can disable such error correction mechanism.

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Obsolete features](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/open/Obsolete_features)

> - [Privileged features](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/open/Privileged_features)

Reviewer: These have been deleted through Yarn per instructions.
